Cleanup ECS/EC2 APM Setup for Agent and App side (#16120)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/containers/amazon_ecs/apm.md

      text: "Assign tags to all data emitted by a container"
---

## Overview

> To collect traces from your ECS containers, update your Agent's and your application container's Task Definitions with the instructions below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To collect traces from your ECS containers, the Task Definitions for both your Agent and your application container as described below.
```

> This can be done by modifying the previously used [Task Definition file][4] and [registering your updated Task Definition][5]. Alternatively you can edit the Task Definition directly from the Amazon Web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One option for doing this is to modify the previously used [Task Definition file][4] and [register your updated Task Definition][5]. Alternatively, you can edit the Task Definition directly from the Amazon Web UI.
```

Once enabled, the Datadog Agent container collects the traces emitted from the other application containers on the same host as itself.

## Configure the Datadog Agent to accept traces

> To collect all logs from your running ECS containers, update your Agent's Task Definition from the [original ECS Setup][6] with the configuration below.

Reviewer: should this say "to collect traces"?

Author: That should fixed that 👍

> To collect all logs from your running ECS containers, update your Agent's Task Definition from the [original ECS Setup][6] with the configuration below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To collect all logs from your running ECS containers, update your Agent's Task Definition from the [original ECS Setup][6] with the configuration below.
```

> Use [datadog-agent-ecs-apm.json][3] as a reference point for the required base configuration. In the Task Definition for Datadog Agent container, set the `portMappings` for a host to container port on `8126` with the protocol `tcp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Use [datadog-agent-ecs-apm.json][3] as a reference point for the required base configuration. In the Task Definition for Datadog Agent container, set the `portMappings` for a host to container port on `8126` with the protocol `tcp`.
```

```json
{
  "containerDefinitions": [
    {
      "name": "datadog-agent",
      "image": "public.ecr.aws/datadog/agent:latest",
      "cpu": 100,
      "memory": 256,
      "essential": true,
      "portMappings": [
        {
          "hostPort": 8126,
          "protocol": "tcp",
          "containerPort": 8126
        }
      ],
      (...)
    }
  ]
}
```

> For **Agent v7.17 or lower**, add the following environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. For **Agent v7.17 or lower**, add the following environment variables:
```

```json
"environment": [
  (...)
  {
    "name": "DD_APM_ENABLED",
    "value": "true"
  },
  {
    "name": "DD_APM_NON_LOCAL_TRAFFIC",
    "value": "true"
  }
]
```

> If you have a local file for your Agent's Task Definition you can repeat the steps to [register your updated Task Definition][5]. This creates a new revision for you. You can then reference this updated revision in the Daemon Service for the Datadog Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If you are updating a local file for your Agent's Task Definition, [register your updated Task Definition][5]. This creates a new revision. You can then reference this updated revision in the daemon service for the Datadog Agent.
```

## Configure your application container to submit traces to Datadog Agent

> First consult the [setup instructions for installing the Datadog Tracer][2] per language. For ECS install the Datadog Tracer into your application's container image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Install the tracing library

Follow the [setup instructions for installing the Datadog tracing library][2] for your application's language. For ECS install the it into your application's container image.
```

> After this, provide the Tracer with the private IP address of the underlying EC2 instance that the application container is running on. This address is the hostname of the Tracer endpoint. The Datadog Agent container on the same host (with the host port enabled) receives these traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Provide the private IP address for the EC2 instance

Provide the tracer with the private IP address of the underlying EC2 instance that the application container is running on. This address is the hostname of the tracer endpoint. The Datadog Agent container on the same host (with the host port enabled) receives these traces.
```

> ### Get the private IP address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use one of the following methods to get the private IP address:
```

{{< code-block lang="curl" >}}
cat $ECS_CONTAINER_METADATA_FILE | jq -r .HostPrivateIPv4Address
{{< /code-block >}}
    
[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/container-metadata.html#metadata-file-format
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Proivde the result of this request to the Tracer through the environment variable `DD_AGENT_HOST` for each application container sending APM traces.

> ### Set Tracer hostname

Reviewer 2: I don't think `Set Tracer hostname` is quite right for this because the hostname means something different and appears on the Infrastructure List and on the host.

What do you think of this heading?
```git suggest
Send Traces To the Datadog Agent Container
```

Author: The parent header of this is "Configure your application container to submit traces to Datadog Agent" so wanted to avoid those headers looking too much alike. The doc had mentioned `hostname` quite a bit which is technically correct, but ya could cause confusion here. 

I can change to "Configure the Tracer endpoint" and toy around with the wording there

Reviewer 2: What about `Configure the Trace Agent URL` or `Configure the Trace Agent Endpoint` or something like that?

`Tracer endpoint` will cause confusion since the endpoint is to submit traces to the Agent, not the tracer.

Author: I'm good with `Configure the Trace Agent Endpoint` will update

> In cases where variables on your ECS application are set at launch time (Java, .NET, PHP), you **must** set the hostname as an environment variable with `DD_AGENT_HOST` using one of the above methods. If you have a startup script as your entrypoint this can be included in there, otherwise this can be added to the ECS Task Definition's `entryPoint`.

Reviewer 2: The examples for these three are in the section below, so just a slight edit
```git suggest
In cases where variables on your ECS application are set at launch time (Java, .NET, and PHP), you **must** set the hostname as an environment variable with `DD_AGENT_HOST` using one of the below methods. If you have a startup script as your entrypoint this can be included in there, otherwise this can be added to the ECS Task Definition's `entryPoint`.
```

Author: Leaving "above" as that is meant to cover the IMDSv1 endpoint, IMDSv2 endpoint, or container metadata file options. But adding the clarification for the below.

> environment variable with `DD_AGENT_HOST` using one of the above methods. The samples below are using the IMDSv1 metadata endpoint.

> For the other languages (Python, Javascript, Ruby, Go) you can alternatively set the hostname in your application's source code.

Reviewer 2: I am just suggesting an `and` in the example:
```git suggest
For the other languages (Python, Javascript, Ruby, and Go) you can alternatively set the hostname in your application's source code.
```

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="python,nodeJS,ruby,go,java,.NET,PHP" >}}

{{< programming-lang lang="python" >}}

#### Launch time variable
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with:
```json
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",

>   "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); ddtrace-run python <your application>"

Reviewer 2: Not all Python applications run with `ddtrace-run python <your application>"`, ie: uwsgi setups. What do you think of this?

```
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",
  "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <command used to launch Python application container>"
```

{{< code-block lang="curl" >}}
cat $ECS_CONTAINER_METADATA_FILE | jq -r .HostPrivateIPv4Address
{{< /code-block >}}
    
[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/container-metadata.html#metadata-file-format
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> Provide the result of this request to the Tracer through the environment variable `DD_AGENT_HOST` for each application container sending APM traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the result of this request to the tracer by setting the `DD_AGENT_HOST` environment variable  for each application container that sends traces.
```

### Configure the trace agent endpoint

> In cases where variables on your ECS application are set at launch time (Java, .NET, and PHP), you **must** set the hostname of the tracer endpoint as an environment variable with `DD_AGENT_HOST` using one of the above methods. The examples below use the IMDSv1 metadata endpoint, but the configuration can be interchanged if needed. If you have a startup script as your entrypoint this can be included in there, otherwise this can be added to the ECS Task Definition's `entryPoint`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where variables on your ECS application are set at launch time (Java, .NET, and PHP), you **must** set the hostname of the tracer endpoint as an environment variable with `DD_AGENT_HOST` using one of the above methods. The examples below use the IMDSv1 metadata endpoint, but the configuration can be interchanged if needed. If you have a startup script as your entry point, include this call as part of the script, or add it to the ECS Task Definition's `entryPoint`.
```

> For the other languages (Python, Javascript, Ruby, and Go) you can alternatively set the hostname in your application's source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For other supported languages (Python, JavaScript, Ruby, and Go) you can alternatively set the hostname in your application's source code.
```

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="python,nodeJS,ruby,go,java,.NET,PHP" >}}

{{< programming-lang lang="python" >}}

#### Launch time variable
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substitute with your `<Python Startup Command>`:

```json
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",
  "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <Python Startup Command>"
]
```

> For Python the startup command is generally `ddtrace-run python my_app.py` but may vary depending on the framework used. Such as if using [uWSGI][1] or instrumenting your [code manually with `patch_all`][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Python the startup command is generally `ddtrace-run python my_app.py` but may vary depending on the framework used, for example, using [uWSGI][1] or instrumenting your [code manually with `patch_all`][2].
```

#### Code

> You can alternatively update your code to have the tracer set the hostname explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can alternatively update your code to have the tracer set the hostname explicitly:
```

tracer.configure(hostname=get_aws_ip())
```

[1]: https://ddtrace.readthedocs.io/en/stable/advanced_usage.html#uwsgi
[2]: https://ddtrace.readthedocs.io/en/stable/basic_usage.html#patch-all
{{< /programming-lang >}}

{{< programming-lang lang="nodeJS" >}}

#### Launch time variable

> Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substitute with your `<NodeJS Startup Command>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substituting your `<NodeJS Startup Command>`:
```

```json
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",
  "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <NodeJS Startup Command>"
]
```

#### Code

> You can alternatively update your code to have the tracer set the hostname explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can alternatively update your code to have the tracer set the hostname explicitly:
```

{{< programming-lang lang="nodeJS" >}}

#### Launch time variable
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with:
```json
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",

>   "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); npm start"

Reviewer 2: See comment for Python, but same idea. Not all NodeJS applications run with `npm start`.

```
"export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <command used to launch NodeJS application container>"
```

For more examples of setting the Agent hostname in other languages, see the [change Agent hostname documentation][1].

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/nodejs/#change-agent-hostname
{{< /programming-lang >}}

{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

#### Launch time variable
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the follwing, substituting your `<Startup Command>`:
```json
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",

>   "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <Startup Command>"

Reviewer 2: ```git suggest
  "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <command used to start Ruby application container>"
```

})();
```

{{< /programming-lang >}}

{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

#### Launch time variable

> Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substitute with your `<Ruby Startup Command>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substituting your `<Ruby Startup Command>`:
```

```json
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",
  "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <Ruby Startup Command>"
]
```

#### Code

> You can alternatively update your code to have the tracer set the hostname explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can alternatively update your code to have the tracer set the hostname explicitly:
```

{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}

#### Launch time variable

> Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substitute with your `<Go Startup Command>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substituting your `<Go Startup Command>`:
```

```json
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",
  "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <Go Startup Command>"
]
```

#### Code

> You can alternatively update your code to have the tracer set the hostname explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can alternatively update your code to have the tracer set the hostname explicitly:
```

    "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/ddtrace/tracer"
)

func main() {
    resp, err := http.Get("http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4")
    bodyBytes, err := ioutil.ReadAll(resp.Body)
    host := string(bodyBytes)
    if err == nil {
        //set the output of the curl command to the DD_AGENT_HOST env
        os.Setenv("DD_AGENT_HOST", host)
        // tell the trace agent the host setting
        tracer.Start(tracer.WithAgentAddr(host))
        defer tracer.Stop()
    }
    //...
}
```

{{< /programming-lang >}}

{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

#### Launch time variable

> Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substitute with your `<Java Startup Command>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substituting your `<Java Startup Command>`:
```

```java
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",
  "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <Java Startup Command>"
]
```
The Java startup command should include your `-javaagent:/path/to/dd-java-agent.jar`, see the [Java tracing docs for adding the tracer to the JVM][1] for further examples.

[1]: /tracing/trace_collection/dd_libraries/java/?tab=containers#add-the-java-tracer-to-the-jvm
{{< /programming-lang >}}

{{< programming-lang lang=".NET" >}}

#### Launch time variable

> Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following. Substitute with your `APP_PATH` if not set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following, substituting your `APP_PATH` if not set:
```

{{< programming-lang lang="PHP" >}}

#### Launch time variable

> Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the Task Definition's `entryPoint` with the following:
```

{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

> ##### IMDSv2

Reviewer 2: I think this section should be bundled closer with the "task definition" example. Right now it's
- task definition example
- Ruby code example
- task definition example
I think both examples that involve entrypoint modifications should be closer together.

Author: This IMDSv2 sample is actually outside all the code blocks, so it will show up at the bottom for each. But I can update this to make it a little more clear that this is the generic one for all.

It didn't feel necessary / looked to wordy to have both the IMDSv1 and IMDSv2 sample in each code block.

Reviewer 2: If all the tracers can support `"export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <command used to launch application container>"`, then maybe just bundle the IMDSv1 and IMDSv2 sample into one common section, then have only a few tables for the languages that support code modifications?

Author: That makes sense. So I guess I'm for the current structure where:
- Broken down by lang
- Launch time `DD_AGENT_HOST` variable example for each
    - For the most part referencing a generic `<Python Startup Command>` 
    - Additional notes where applicable per language, adding in extra links/notes for context
- Code snippets per applicable languages added

But I'm totally open to adding extra notes for each language. Relative to the current status of this:
- Is the IMDSv2 example still reading as too unclear?
- Should Java be updated to `<Java Startup Command>` and make notes for `-javaagent` and link to that section as appropriate for the actual command?
- Should Python more explicitly provide uwsgi and those links as an example?

Reviewer 2: I think the IMDSv1 can be simplified to:
```
"export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <command used to launch application container>"
```

The IMDSv2 looks good to me. 
```
"export TOKEN=$(curl -X PUT \"http://169.254.169.254/latest/api/token\" -H \"X-aws-ec2-metadata-token-ttl-seconds: 21600\"); export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl -H \"X-aws-ec2-metadata-token: $TOKEN\" http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <Startup Command>"
```
This will work for all tracers so we don't have to get into specifics of how to set up APM in the containers focused pages.

Author: I think I'm going to have to leave the IMDSv1 section as is. Tried a few different iterations of including the generic `entryPoint` command like: 
```json
"entryPoint": [
  "sh",
  "-c",
  "export DD_AGENT_HOST=$(curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/local-ipv4); <Startup Command>"
]
```

Then going including some minor details per language. However, it just looked too off. While Node, Ruby, and Go are all pretty much the same, having it separated for the other 4 languages didn't flow well. So having the little snippet there for each, while a little redundant, does read a lot easier in my opinion.

I've included links to the APM Docs where applicable to avoid having these docs be too focused on the tracer component and instead be more ECS focused.

env[DD_VERSION] = $DD_VERSION
```

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/tagging/unified_service_tagging/
{{< /programming-lang >}}

{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

> ##### IMDSv2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### IMDSv2
```

> When using IMDSv2 the equivalent `entryPoint` configuration would look like the following. Substitute `<Startup Command>` with the appropriate command based on your language like the examples above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using IMDSv2, the equivalent `entryPoint` configuration looks like the following. Substitute `<Startup Command>` with the appropriate command based on your language, as in the examples above.
```
